>> Rodriguez: That's what we're gonna look
at next is preventing those kind of issues
by using this other approach that's
called a hybrid or spongy coding.
So this was developed by a couple of
people really back in the day years ago.
The hybrid version was
originally developed by a woman
named Nicole Merlin who's from Australia.
Worked for campaign monitor for a while.
Is unfortunately no longer the email
industry but she is awesome.
So she called it hybrid coding and
a couple of other people
referred to it as hybrid coding.
And then there is this guy that worked for
Mailchimp for
a long time that built all of those
email templates that Mailchimp users and
create inside of their wizard
editor named Fabio Carnero.
He works for booking.com now.
Super smart email developer.
He referred to his
version as spongy coding.
I have a bunch of kind of coding
samples from him that we'll go over.
But this takes a different approach from
the traditional version of the response
female.
But we're still gonna use that
fluidity for our layouts.
It's a very important
key component of this.
But everything's gonna
be fluid by default.
So all of our tables
are gonna be fluid widths,
instead of having that 600 pixel wide.
But to constrain that, we're going to fall
back to using that max-width CSS property.
So this is similar to what we were
doing when we were first starting out,
we had that div container.
I had set it to have a max-width
inline on that div to be 600 pixels.
And then that constrained it for all of
the different email clients except for
our Outlook friends, and
that's where the problem comes into play.
We can have those fluid by
default responsive emails, but
when they're opened up in
Outlook that doesn't work and
we get those broken layouts that
are super wide and look terrible.
All those line lengths are really long and
hard to read that copy in an email.
So the way we get around that is
using something that's typically
referred to as a ghost table or
an MSO table.
So Microsoft has this
concept of targeting itself by
using these conditional comments.
So you might be familiar with this.
If you were building websites
way back in the day years ago.
You would conditionally feed
IE a certain CSS styles
that you knew that it would respect and
display properly.
Because it wasn't very happy
with older versions by Alias.
We're very happy with newer properties and
CSS, CSS three stuff like that.
So you could use this
conditional comment and
use the square bracket a notation to
target IE and we can do that same thing.
Inside of Microsoft Office
to target Microsoft Outlook.
So what we can do the same,
we can open up that comment.
Using that comment,
same syntax for HTML comments.
And then we use the square bracket,
we say if this is opened up and
in this case greater than or
equal to MSO 9.
Which is one of the versions
of Microsoft Outlook.
We'll see what those versions correspond
to in a second here, or it's viewed an IE.
So all the versions of IE,
then I want you to apply the code
inside of this conditional common.
So it's kinda like a media query or
setting some sorta property
that you're testing for.
Then if that property is true than that
condition's true that anything inside of
that is displayed and rendered, but
this only works in Microsoft Outlook,
which is awesome because that's where most
of our problems and email design lie.
So we can target Microsoft Outlook
very specifically.
So we've seen this in play when we were
looking at those bulletproof buttons,
the buttons.cm approach that used VML.
So you probably saw one of
these conditional comments.
It would start up in front of our anchor
tag and below it as well, to open and
close that conditional code.
Same thing applies, we're gonna be
targeting specific versions of Outlook.
And then we're gonna be feeding
them stuff that they understand.
So in our case, it's gonna be tables.
And since these are not rendered or seen
by any other email client, only Outlook.
They're kind of like ghosts for that, so
that's where that term
ghost table comes from.
For all other clients they
are nonexistent, they don't matter.
But Outlook will see these and
render them accordingly, which is awesome.
So these are the different Outlook
versions, it goes up from there.
You can see Version 9 is Outlook 2000,
Version 10 is 2002,
it goes all the way up there.
I think more recent versions have fallen
off of this naming convention, and
you can see it skips weirdly from
12 to 14 for no reason whatsoever.
But these are the main ones because
they're still using Microsoft Word.
Newer versions will respect
anything that's greater than or
equal to that older version,
which is why you typically start at that
lowest version of Outlook, that oldest
version, and then go anything above that.
And it will respect this
conditional code here.
If we wanna target things specifically
we can say greater than or
equal to using GTE.
Greater than is GTE.
Less than or equal to, and less than,
have those properties as well.
It's very rare that you would ever have to
target a very specific version of Outlook.
It is usually easier to just target
the old one and work ahead and
just make it apply for all of those
different versions of Outlook.